Hi everyone. Welcome to
this course called
Amazon SageMaker:
Build an Object
Detection Model Using
Images Labeled with Ground Truth.
My name is Denis Batalov,
I'm a worldwide tech leader
in Artificial Intelligence,
Machine Learning at AWS.
My twitter handle is shown
here, please follow.
In this course, we're going to go
through an end-to-end example of
using Amazon SageMaker to
build an object detection model,
specifically identifying
the location
of honey bees in photos.
To train the model,
we will use images that are
labeled by SageMaker
Ground Truth,
and you will see how to go from
raw images to a trained
and deployed model.
First, I will tell you about
the dataset and where to
get images of honey bees.
Then, I will do a
quick overview of
the SageMake and Ground
Truth functionality,
giving us enough of foundation to
start the hands-on
work with the tool.
We will use Ground
Truth to identify
the exact location of bees on
each image in the dataset.
I will then give an overview of
how object detection
algorithms work.
This is because we will
use the labeled images
to train an object detection
machine-learning model
built into SageMaker so that bees
can be automatically
identified in new images.
Finally, we will cover
hyperparameter optimization or
automated model tuning
showing you how to
find an optimal set of
hyperparameters in a smart way.
Let us now talk about machine
learning problem that
we'll be solving and the
dataset that we'll use.
To begin, let's take a look at
a quick overview of typical
tasks in computer vision.
It's not an exhaustive list,
but gives you a good
idea of the domain.
At the simpler end
of the spectrum,
we want to merely determine
if the image does
or does not contain a
certain single object,
in this case a kitten.
The next level of
complexity is actually
identifying where in the
image the object is,
for example, with a
simple bounding box.
More generally, instead
of a single object,
we would like to identify as
many different objects
in a scene as possible,
giving rise to the object
detection problem.
This is precisely what
we're after in this course.
Though we would be
focusing only on
one object class
namely honeybees.
In some applications, it might
be necessary to be more precise
than the rectangular bounding
box and this leads to
an instance segmentation
task where each pixel is
classified as either belonging or
not belonging to a
particular object.
For the purposes of this course,
we will use 500
photos of honeybees.
Where can we get such photos?
There's an easier way than
spending a lot of
time near a beehive.
Turns out there's
an iNaturalist crowd sourcing
project that comes with
a website and a
handy smartphone app
allowing people to upload
their photos of plants,
animals, mushrooms, tagged
with location, date, etc.
Here, you see an image
of the California puppy
that I have submitted via
the app earlier this year.
The purpose is to
record the sighting,
but also to help identify
the species based on
established biological
taxonomy relying
on community of experts.
iNaturalists also exposes
a handy expert functionality
where you can download
the observation details based on
selection criteria such as
species, the geography, etc.
This is exactly how I
obtained the 500 bee images.
When people upload their photos,
they choose what license they
prefer to share them under.
For the purposes of this course,
I only used photos
with the CC0 license,
known as Creative Commons
public domain license.
Here is the iNaturalist website
and if you choose to
explore the observations,
you can get to the export screen
by clicking the download button.
Say we want to get all images
of honeybees in Canada,
we can specify additional filters
insisting on observations
that do have images.
When it comes to downloading,
we can choose all the desired
attributes of an observation.
For instance, to know under
which license the
images are provided,
you should choose the
license attribute.
Here's the iNaturalist website.
You can choose to
explore observations
by specifying the species
that you're looking for,
honey bees in our case,
and then the location say Canada,
and additionally, you can
specify more filters.
You can insist on observations
that have photos,
and finally, you can
choose to download.
You get kicked to the screen
where you can provide
additional details.
You could see the
count of observations,
1,600 roughly speaking,
and you can choose
specific attributes.
If you're looking for a license,
make sure you select
the license under which
the images are exported.
There are many useful
attributes as you can see.
Then finally, create the export,
you will obtain the excel file
that contains all the
information that you need.
Before we jump into
the hands-on part,
let's spend a few
minutes reviewing
the Amazon SageMaker service and
it's Ground Truth
functionality specifically.
Amazon SageMaker is
designed to eliminate
the heavy lifting from all parts
of a typical process
for a building,
training, and deploying
machine-learning models.
First off, it comes with
a Jupyter notebook server
that lets you manage note books.
There are dozens of pre-built
notebooks to help you
start solving many common
machine learning problems.
You can customize
this to your task,
taking advantage of the many
built-in ML algorithms,
or create your own machine
learning recipe using one of
many popular ML
frameworks such as
MXNet, TensorFlow or PyTorch.
Second, you can kick
off training of
a developed model using
as much computational
power as you
need by choosing the right
size cluster of GPU or
CPU based machines
available in the AWS cloud.
Even the most
sophisticated algorithms
still have many parameters,
one must specify in
order to start training.
Finding the right values
for such parameters
feels often more like
an art than science.
This is why SageMaker provides
the so-called hyperparameter
optimization,
abbreviated as HPO, also known
as automated model tuning.
Finally, once a satisfactory
model is trained,
SageMaker makes it easy to create
a scalable production
inference endpoint
by taking care of
model deployment.
As you have come to
expect from AWS,
autoscaling is supported
out of the box.
SageMaker is a powerful
tool and that's the reason
many customers choose to adopt it
including the well-known
companies shown on screen.
In addition to the three
main functional blocks
in SageMaker of notebooks,
training, and inference,
many additional features
are built into the servers.
In this course, we will use
the SageMaker Ground Truth to
label the raw image dataset,
identifying the exact location
of honeybees in each.
For many practical problems,
we may have collected the
data needed for training,
yet this data is missing
the correct target
attribute which is required
for machine learning.
In our case, such
a target attribute
is the bounding box or generally,
many bounding boxes around
each honeybee in an image.
Labeling a dataset
requires human input.
After all, we're training
a machine learning model
to mimic human decisions.
Not only is there
the labor cost involved
in labeling each image,
but we want to involve many
human labelers in parallel
so that a large dataset can be
processed as fast as possible.
SageMaker Ground Truth
makes all of this
possible and that is why for
many real life problems,
Ground Truth lets you turn
a potential intractable
problem due
to cost and needed orchestration
into a solvable one,
enabling more and more machine
learning applications.
SageMaker Ground Truth supports
these labeling tasks
straight out of the box.
You will recognize the three
different image-based
tasks namely,
image classification,
object detection, and
semantic segmentation.
This includes the
labeling user interfaces
required for such tasks.
Additionally, Ground
Truth supports
labeling jobs for
text classification,
and if you have different need,
SageMaker also lets you build
a custom labeling workflow.
For example, you may
need to simultaneously
label an image and a
related piece of text.
An accustomed labeling template
would be required in such a case.
The UI can be constructed
using crowd HTML elements,
tag library defined by
Amazon Mechanical Turk.
Moreover, you can provide
logic in the form of
Lambda functions that do
pre and post-processing
of labeling data.
For example, you may want to use
a custom algorithm to score
the results of the labeling task.
If you need the help of many
humans to label the dataset,
where do you get these helpers?
SageMaker Ground Truth supports
three different
types of labelers.
First off, you can rely on
a public workforce and on-demand
24/7 workforce of over 500,000
independent contractors
worldwide powered
by the Amazon Mechanical Turk.
Second, you can create a
private pool of workers.
These could be employees of
your company for example.
Sometimes, the data that
needs labeling contains
sensitive information that is
not to be exposed publicly.
Finally, Ground Truth supports
external third party vendors of
labeling services who you
can contract via the tool.
Another important value
out of Ground Truth is
the ability to learn while
the human labeling
is in progress.
This is called active learning.
If the active learning
model built in real time is
confident that it
can automatically
label image it will do so,
and if it's not, it will
still send it to a human labeler.
For large datasets,
this feature can
dramatically reduce the
overall labeling cost.
All right, after this quick
overview we're ready to jump
into AWS console and actually
start the hands-on part.
The very first thing
we need to do is
download the Jupyter notebook
from the link shown.
Jupyter notebooks
are also known as
IPython notebooks and
hence the file extension
of IPY and B.
We will use this file shortly.
Once you're inside AWS console,
the first thing to
look at is the region.
In my case, I'm using
the Oregon region.
That's where I will also create
all the buckets to
access my data.
The next thing we want to do
is go to Amazon SageMaker.
I have it conveniently here in
the recently visited
services but you
can also type it directly.
Looking in the left
navigation bar,
you see the four sections
that we've already talked about.
Ground-truth allows
you to label the data.
Notebook section
manages the notebooks.
Training is about kicking off
model training and finally,
inference is about
deployment of models
and running predictions
against these end points.
What we need to do first
is create a notebook.
So we'll click on
notebook instances.
You could see that I already have
some notebooks here
in a stopped state.
I will then go to create
a notebook instance,
give it a name. Something
like SageMaker-course.
We can leave the instance type as
the default and other
parameters as well.
The important thing for us
is to supply the IAM role.
If you already have a
role that's suitable,
great but usually you
may need to create one.
So we'll click Create a new role.
In this case you can
leave all the settings as
the default except for this one,
'Choose any S3 bucket'.
This will allow you to access
S3 buckets and not be restricted
to some specific ones.
Later on, you can be
more restrictive.
So we'll create this role.
Success. Leave the other
attributes to be the defaults.
We'll click the 'Create
notebook' instance.
You could see that this
notebook is starting.
It may take a couple of
minutes for it to start.
As we can see our notebook
SageMaker-course is ready to go.
So we'll just click on
'Open Jupyter lab' link.
Let it all load.
This is the place
where we need to
upload the Demo.ipynb file.
So we'll click on the
upload button. Choose demo.
This is our notebook.
We just need to
double-click on it.
Close the Launcher
off and there we go.
So what you're seeing here
is a Jupyter notebook.
If you're not familiar
with Jupyter notebooks is
just a way for you to combine
text explanations
with code that you
can run right inside
the notebook.
We're not going to
be spending time
reading the text here.
Instead, I'll be explaining
things and you can take time
and go through the
explanations at home.
So the very first
thing that we need to
do is to scroll down
to the very first cell and
you can see that cells are
highlighted with the
blue bars on the left.
There's our first code cell.
In fact it's not even Python.
It's just shell commands
to download the
dataset.zip file and
unzip all the contents.
For us to execute it,
we need to press Shift and Enter.
You will see an asterisk.
Once the asterisk is showing,
it means the code is
running. Once that's done.
You get to see the
number which is
the first cell to be
executed and of course
the output as well.
On the left, you see
all the images that
have been unzipped.
In fact, you could
just take a look.
Double-click on any of these.
You could see images of bees.
That's a good sign.
These are the images we want.
Just to understand exactly
what was in that zip.
To understand the structure
a little bit better,
we can go to the next cell
and just list the contents.
In addition to the
500 images of bees.
We'll just see the
tail of them here.
We also have a test sub folder.
In there, we have
10 test images that we'll
use for testing later on.
Additionally, we have the
output.manifest file.
This contains the results
of a ground truth
labeling job for all 500 images
of bees that are present
in this dataset.
You see as we'll try to kick
off a labeling job
through SageMaker.
We'll just have it labeled
assemble of images, say 10.
But for you to train a model,
we need many more
images and therefore
a complete labeled dataset
is provided with all
500 images labeled.
Moving right along, in the
next cell we need to supply
the S3 bucket that
will be used for
both reading the
images and as well,
writing the output of
labeling job and model
training and so on.
So this is our working bucket.
We must create it in the
same region as SageMaker.
Remember we chose Oregon.
So I already have
my denisb-SageMaker-Oregon
bucket created.
You will need to
create your own bucket
with your own name in the
region that you chose.
So let's execute this cell.
Finally, what we need
to do before we start
labeling is to upload all of
those 500 images into
the bucket using
the S3 sync command
which I've just done.
Now, in fact because I've
uploaded these images
into this bucket before,
the sync doesn't need
to do much work.
In your case, you may
see many, many lines.
Essentially one line for
every one of those files.
Great. We're now ready to move
on to labeling the images.
I have provided a handy cheat
sheet where you can grab
some pieces of useful
information when we're
configuring the labeling job
but we'll see that in a moment.
So I'm going to go
back to the console.
Instead of the notebook section.
I'm going to look at the
labeling jobs section.
You can see some previously
executed labeling jobs
that have been completed
but we will click Create
labeling job button.
Give it a name.
Something like 'Bees sample'.
The next thing we need to do is
provide the location
of all those images.
Well, remember we've just
uploaded those images.
But instead of providing
just the location, usually,
a manifest file is required that
describes that information or
contains that information.
We have a handy wizard link here.
So we click on Create
manifest file.
We'll point to the location
of images
denisb-SageMaker-oregon/ input/.
Make sure to add a
forward slash at
the end and the default
images is right.
So we'll just click Create.
We need to wait a
little bit before
the manifest file is created and
we will confirm it. All right.
We can see that the manifest
has been effectively created,
500 objects were
found which is great.
These are the images we want.
So we'll just say
Use this manifest.
You could see immediately that
this manifest file was
filled into this box for us.
Next, we need to provide
the location of the output.
I can just copy this
location and say Output.
For IAM role, choose
the same role you've
created earlier.
Now, for additional
configuration,
recall that instead of doing
a full 500 images labeling job,
we're going to pick a subsample
just for demonstration purposes.
So I'll say random
sample of size two,
and that's in percentages.
So two percent of
500 is ten images,
and we'll click the
Create subset button.
There you go, ten
objects selected,
we'll hit the use
this subset button.
It's actually important
that you do that
because otherwise the
subset is not chosen.
So once we click here,
you should see that
the manifest file
is replaced with the
sample manifest.
The reason I say that that's
important is because
if you don't do it,
then the labeling job for
the entire set of 500
images will be kicked off,
and that's potentially
more costly and
we'll see what the
cost is in a moment.
Next, we need to
supply the task type.
As we've discussed earlier,
we're talking about
object detection
here and bounding
boxes around objects.
So we'll need to pick
the bounding box task and
click the Next button.
So the next decision for us
is which worker pool to choose,
who are going to be the
people labeling your images.
We can choose from
the public workforce,
these are the contractors
who are powered
by Amazon Mechanical
Turk, 24/7 workforce.
You can also choose
a private workforce.
It's possible that
your images contain
some sensitive information that
you don't want to
reveal to the public,
and that could be
a better option.
You can create that
pool yourself by
inviting people and
then curating it.
So fully managed by you.
Then you also have an option
of contracting a vendor.
There are several vendors that
integrate with sage
maker ground-truth and
each vendor has their
own specific features
and benefits that you
could choose from.
We're going to go with
the public workforce
for this demonstration,
and clearly we need to decide
how much we're going to
pay the labelers for
each labeling task.
There is a guideline here,
that if your time
estimate as let say
eight to ten seconds then
3.6 cents is a
reasonable price to pay,
and and so on and so forth.
So for some very
challenging tasks
you can pay more money,
and of course the more money
you're paying for a job,
the more labelers are going to
be motivated to complete
the task faster,
and the more labelers
are going to be drawn to
your task and therefore
your labeling will be
completed faster overall.
The next thing we need to
do is certify that there's
no adult content in those images,
and that we understand that
this is a public workforce,
we don't have any personally
identifiable information
in the images and so on.
So that's what we do.
There's a small box
here to enable automated
data labeling.
Now, this is useful when you have
a very large dataset or a
moderately large dataset,
and in our case we only
have a 500 images,
and in fact for this
sampling labeling job
we'll just use 10.
So we are not going
to be able to benefit
from automated data labeling
so we'll leave this off.
Clicking on additional
configuration,
this is a bit of
interesting information
because we can decide
how many workers get to see
the same exact image
and get to label it.
So by default,
five different people will
label the same exact image,
and then a consolidated label is
computed to provide a
better overall label,
a more accurate label.
But of course you're going
to be paying every one of
those five workers
the same amount
specified here, 3.6 cents.
Therefore, you need
to decide what's
the right number of labelers to
get the accuracy that
you need to achieve,
and five is a reasonable option.
You can go with three,
you can go with
more but because we're doing
a demonstration here
we'll just drop
it to one and leave it as such.
Moving on to the next section,
this is actually
unexciting section
because we're configuring
the visual tool that
the labelers will
use and you can see the
different sections here.
First we need to describe
what is the task.
So there's a brief description,
and here's where the
handy cheat sheet
is useful to copy and paste.
Those task descriptions
and other information.
So we're asking labelers to
draw a bounding box around a bee,
then we need to provide
the label here while we
only have one class,
so it's going to be bee,
and for good and bad examples we
need to provide
descriptions as well.
What constitutes a good example?
We want to make sure that
all parts of the
insect are included,
and the bounding box is
tight around the insect.
Whereas, a bad
example is when parts
of the bee are excluded
or the box is too big.
Okay, so these are
just text descriptions
but we can also provide images,
and what you need to do is
click to the right
of this gray box,
hit the Delete button,
and then insert a new image.
We need to copy the URL.
There is the example
of good label,
and do the same here,
delete, insert.
That's an example of a bad label,
you see the boxes a bit wider
and some parts of the bee;
the wing and the leg
is not included.
Great. Not only we
can configure it,
but we can also preview it.
So if I hit the Preview button,
we see the UI that
the labelers will
be able to see and moreover,
we can try to draw
a bounding boxes.
So the box tool is
setup and I can just
try to imitate this,
make the box a little tighter,
and now this looks good.
But again, I can hit
the submit button,
but nothing happens since
it's just a demonstration,
we only see the JSON
document that will be
produced as a result with
the details of the bounding box,
dimensions, the class label,
and overall image dimensions.
Great. So once we are satisfied
that the UI looks good,
we can hit the Submit button,
and our bees-sample labeling
job is now in progress.
This may take some time.
It could be minutes,
it could be even longer,
much depends on how available
are the lablers in
the public pool.
So there's a bit
of a gamble here.
But usually, they complete
in a matter of minutes.
So we can wait
until this is done.
But I can also look at
the results of my
previous labeling job,
a similar labeling job,
so we can move on.
If I look in the
console for example,
there is the bees job,
I can click on it.
You can see that
all 10 images have
results bounding boxes
and they're pretty good.
This is an interesting image
because it's an entire beehive.
So there's lots and lots
and lots of tiny bees,
so we can't really
expect a labeler to
draw thousands of boxes
here and as a result,
I think that person
just chose to draw
a big box around
the beehive itself.
Again, this is a normal situation
that you will encounter
these exceptional
cases on any dataset,
that's real machine learning.
So we can review the results
here in the console,
but I've also prepared
some cells in
the notebook to
achieve the same thing
just to show you that you can
do a lot of things
programmatically
and through the console.
The one thing we need to do is
supply the labeling job name.
I believe that was bees, exactly.
We just need to run the cell.
One thing the cell is doing is,
actually, printing the lines
from the manifest file.
This is the manifest file
from the labeling job.
This manifest is in
the JSON lines format,
where every line is a
well-formed JSON document,
and each line corresponds to
the result of a particular
image being labeled.
So you can see over
here that there is
a source-ref attribute that
contains the s3
location of the image.
Then we have the name of the
labeling job, which is bees,
pointing to a structure
that contains the
results of labeling,
and that's called annotations.
You have the class_id,
which is zero,
zero is just the first class,
we only have one class bees.
We have the dimensions in
the position of the bounding box,
and then of course, we
have the same image size.
So this is not very different
from what we've seen
earlier in the output
from the labeling UI.
All right. Let's define in
the next cell a function to
show the annotated image,
we're using the matplotlib
library in Python.
Now, that the
function is defined,
we can actually go
through all the lines
in the manifest file
and show the 10 images
that were labeled,
and there it is.
Now, that we have
labeled the dataset,
in preparation for
model training,
it's time for us to
review some details about
the computer vision problem
of object detection.
Given a photo containing
one or more objects,
our goal is to find that
tight bounding box around
every object that the model can
identify together with the
corresponding class label.
In this picture, three objects of
different classes are
identified: a dog,
a bicycle, and a car.
Each bounding box is
described by the position
of the top-left corner:
x and y coordinates,
as well as height and width.
These could be expressed in
absolute numbers of pixels,
or as percentages relative to
the overall image
width and height.
This means that for
a neural network
to detect many different objects,
it must be able to produce
a separate output
for each object,
incorporating the bounding box
location and the class label,
as well as the corresponding
classification confidence.
Intuitively, we can
imagine the process of
object detection as occurring
in two separate steps.
One step is proposing
interesting regions,
where the object might be,
and another is classifying
objects in the region
by also generating
bounding boxes.
One approach is to first apply
pixel-level sub-segmentation
and then apply a
greedy algorithm for
merging together similar regions.
Once larger sub-regions
have been obtained,
candidate regions for where
the object might
reside are proposed.
We can see that a TV, a TV stand,
and a woman are already
contained wholly
within their own
respective sub-regions.
Turns out, such a
two-step process can
be optimized to be completed
in a single forward pass.
Namely, via the so-called
single-shot detectors or SSDs.
All of this happens within
a single neural network.
Here's an example of a
network topology for
an SSD network based on
VGG 16 convolutional
neural network.
Different SSD
topologies also exist.
For example, based on
ResNet-50 network.
Such SSD systems have shown
superior performance,
both in terms of accuracy
and the inference speed.
Speaking of accuracy, how do we
measure if the model
produced good results?
Remember, that unlike
traditional machine
learning classifiers,
not only the model needs to
produce an accurate
classification,
for example a dog,
but also generate
an accurate tight bounding
box around the object.
The bounding box could
be off by a few pixels,
or could be emitting part of
the object or being a
completely wrong place.
How do we then compare accuracy
of different algorithms?
One idea is to take the
predicted bounding box and
the true bounding box and measure
the degree to which
these boxes overlap.
For instance, we could compute
the ratio of two areas;
intersection area divided
by Union area or IoU.
It's obvious to see that for
perfectly matching
bounding boxes,
this ratio will be one,
whereas for non-intersecting
bounding boxes,
it will be zero.
Now, in fact the metric
that is actually used is
called MAP or mean
average precision.
It's outside the scope of
this course to describe
exactly how map
metric is computed.
But suffice it to say that it's
also based on the IoU concept.
So you should have
the right intuition
about how it works.
Okay. Now we're ready to train
the object detection model
in Amazon sage Maker.
We're now ready to start
training our object
detection model.
For that, we're going to use
a built-in object
detection algorithm
based on the ResNet-50
neural network topology.
We will see the details of how to
configure that in a moment.
But first, we need to
split our dataset in
two parts: one is
going to be used for
training the model.
Out of the 500 images,
we will take 400 for training,
and then 100 remaining images
are going to be used
for validation,
which means that every time
a new epoch has gone
by in the training,
we will evaluate
the training model
based on that validation dataset
and to see how well it's doing.
This gives us an
assessment of whether
we should continue
training or stop.
So I will execute this cell.
We see training samples, 400,
validation samples,
100, as expected.
Now we need to upload
these two manifest files
that we've produced in
the process to our S3 Bucket,
which is the standard
location where
SageMaker is looking for things.
We can see that our
uploads have succeeded.
We'll be using these
handy S3 URLs shortly.
I will be using the console
to start the training job.
But I've also provided
a code option where you
could just execute the cell,
and exactly the same
things I will do in
the console will be run in code.
That's often faster.
So once you've done this once,
you can rerun the cell
many times to kick off
many different training jobs
with exact same configuration.
So from the console,
we've gone through
the Labeling section,
we've seen the Notebook section.
Now, we move on to
Training section.
I click on the Training jobs,
and click Create training job.
I need to, as usual,
give it some kind of
name, bees-training-job.
I will pick the same IAM role,
and we will be using
a built-in SageMaker
algorithm that we'll need to
specify out of the many
algorithms that we have.
We're going to use
Object Detection.
Next, we need to
select an input mode.
This is defining how
your training algorithm
is obtaining data,
images in our case.
If you choose File,
it means that the entire
dataset needs to be
downloaded onto the box that
is performing the training.
But we can choose Pipe mode,
which delivers the data
in just-in-time
streaming fashion.
That's, in fact, what
we need to supply
here for the object
detection algorithm.
Based on the algorithm
that was selected,
SageMaker already knows what
metrics are going
to be published.
For us, the two metrics
are going to be
especially interesting.
First of all, it's the
train:progress metric.
How many epochs off training
have already been completed,
so I can know how
many more to go,
and validation:mAP,
mean average precision.
This determines, as I was
trying to explain, the accuracy.
So the closer this to one,
the more accurate
the predictions and
the bounding boxes are,
and the closer to zero,
the less accurate or completely
inaccurate the results are.
Next, we need to select
the instance type,
which will be used for training.
Remember, when we're kicking
off training in SageMaker,
it's going to start
a completely new instance
of the type that
was specified here.
For object detection, we actually
need a machine with a GPU.
So I'll select p2.xlarge,
leave the other
attributes the same.
We're now moving to the
Hyperparameter section.
This is an important
section because we get to
decide here how to configure
the training algorithm.
First of all, we get to
choose the network topology.
There are two available:
VGG16 and ResNet-50.
I've already mentioned ResNet-50.
This is what we're
going to go with.
Next, we need to
decide if we're going
to train from scratch,
in other words from no
previous knowledge,
or start with a
pre-trained model.
Now, we only have
400 images that we're going
to be using for training.
That's usually not enough to
achieve meaningful results.
Just imagine that a machine has
never seen any
images of anything,
and you are showing
400 images of bees
expecting it to identify bees.
That's an extremely
difficult task.
What typically is done,
is that we train or
pre-train this model on a
large variety of images.
Sometimes millions of images
of different objects.
It could be cars,
birds, bicycles, and so on.
This network has learned to
recognize certain
features in those images.
Maybe certain curves,
certain shapes,
and these become the
rudimentary building blocks
out of which other objects
can be recognized.
So now, we're going to use
a pre-trained network,
we'll choose one for yes.
Next, we need to supply
the number of classes,
that's simple.
We only have one class of bees.
Remember, I was talking about
epochs, how many epochs?
How many rounds of
training are needed?
We can leave the 30
here as the default.
We'll leave learning rate,
and optimizer, and momentum,
and others as the defaults.
The minibatch size, I'll adjust.
This basically defines
how many images
are used in a minibatch
during a training round.
If you have lots
and lots of images,
it's more efficient to
have a larger batch size.
It's also utilizing
your GPU better.
But because we have a
relatively small dataset here,
I'll just pick a
minibatch size of
one image being shown to
the network at a time,
and need to supply the
number of training samples.
Well, it's 400.
We'll leave the rest
of the attributes
to be the defaults.
Great. In the next section,
we need to supply the location
of the training data,
where they all are.
So we need to define
two channels.
One is the train channel.
Again, the input mode
is going to be Pipe.
We're going to wrap the records
in the RecordIO format.
Don't worry about this. This is
just a requirement
of the algorithm.
That if you're using
object detection,
the records need to be wrapped.
Luckily, this is all handled
for us automatically
by SageMaker.
Next, the data type is
AugmentedManifestFile.
That's how the data is provided.
We need to explain to
SageMaker what attributes should
be expected in that
augmented manifest file.
Remember, we looked at them
earlier, one was source-ref.
The other was the name
of the labeling job.
Because I'm using the results of
the full labeling job
a full 500 images,
the labeling job name at
that time was B's 500,
and that's exactly what you
need to supply given the data
set and that output
manifest file that
is provided to you.
Finally, we need to supply
the S3 location of
those manifest files.
Remember, in our
Jupyter notebook,
the URLs were printed,
so I can just copy,
paste the train, and then I
will need to add
a second channel,
which is the validation channel,
change the name to validation,
choose pipe again, record
IO, augmented manifest file,
same exact attributes, and the
location we can copy
our notebook and we're
done with that section.
Now, for the output
of our training job,
this is going to be
the model artifacts.
We can just supply
the output folder that
we've used before.
No need to supply encryption,
leave tags empty, and I'll
just hit create training job.
So we'll see our training
job is starting.
It definitely can take some time
if you dealing with
very large data sets,
some training jobs
could take weeks even.
This is probably expected to be
completed in tens of minutes,
so instead of us waiting
for the job to complete,
I can show you the results from
previous job that was completed.
If we go back to our notebook,
I can provide a job name here,
and describe a status.
So this job is currently running,
I pasted here, it's in progress,
and I can find some
previous job that I've run,
for example bees training,
and that has certainly completed,
and we can try to review
the results of this training job.
What does that mean?
Training has completed,
which means we have
the model artifacts.
We need to then
create that model,
package that model, and
deploy to an endpoint
for example,
to be able to run some
predictions against it,
or some object detection
tasks against it.
So in my next cell,
this is exactly what happens.
Given the training job name
which are provided earlier,
the model artifacts
will be fetched,
and we'll create a
configuration for an end point,
which is a real-time endpoint
against which you can
run your predictions,
and once the
configuration is ready,
we need to actually
invoke create endpoint,
this step may take some minutes,
so the next section simply
prints the status of
the endpoint that
I've defined earlier.
If we want this one
that was just created,
we can enter it here,
comment out the previous one,
and we can see that
this is now creating.
Let's wait for our endpoint
to finish the creation.
Let's refresh it a few times,
and we can see that the
endpoint now is in service,
therefore we can start running
predictions against it.
So the first thing that
we're going to do,
is look at the 10,
test images just
refresh that they're
there for a reason.
These are the 10 test
images we're going to use.
They were never seen by
the machine learning model
before or during
training, completely new.
I need a bit of a
helper function that
will unpack the results
of a service call,
endpoint call, so we can then
plot those results nicely,
figure out what is
the class label?
Where is the height? The width,
the length, and so on.
Now, moving on to
the actual plotting,
let's just execute the cell,
and there are the images.
Well, if you look carefully,
we don't see that
many bounding boxes.
There's one here that's
not too terrible,
but then in a lot of other
photos you don't see much.
There's one that's not
so bad here as well.
The reason is, that we
have a parameter here,
that determines what is
the minimum confidence
threshold to use,
and 0.5 could be a bit high,
so we could try
seeing bounding boxes
with lower confidence,
and then the other parameter
here is how many of
those best bounding boxes
that are over the
threshold should be shown.
So if we rerun this again,
we can see bounding
box has started to
appear and this red
one is not so bad,
there clearly is some
misses like that green one,
there's no B there.
These two point to
the right direction,
and here we still
see no bounding box even
at the lower confidence.
This image is also a
bit difficult, clearly.
That one is pretty accurate.
Similar here, one of them
is doing a good job.
There are many bees here but
it sees some in the image.
We can control the output
of the prediction.
We can decide what confidence
to use for our purposes.
But again, remember
that we've just
had 400 images of
bees for training,
and when we configured
our training job,
all those hyperparameters, we
pretty much kept the defaults,
we didn't change
much and in fact,
when you don't know
where to start,
stick with the defaults and
see what the results are.
All right. At this point,
what we typically do is try
to figure out if there's
a better set of
hyperparameters that we could
use to achieve more
accurate results,
or maybe 400 images
is just not enough,
and you need to go
back and obtain
more images and train
for longer time,
for many more epochs before
we get the desired
level of accuracy.
This is exactly the
time for us to talk
about hyperparameter
optimization which
is the next section.
As you have seen in the demo,
we need to supply
many different
hyperparameters for
our object detection
built-in algorithm.
If you don't have lots of
experience for a
particular algorithms,
and machine learning problem,
it will likely be very
difficult for you
to decide what set of
parameters is best.
The reality is that
even the most experienced
and trained practitioners,
often need to explore the
space of hyperparameters to
see which ones affect the
model performance the most.
That's why we have added a way to
automatically find the best
set of hyper-parameters,
a feature called
automated model tuning.
In the industry this
is also known as
hyperparameter
optimization or HPO.
Hyperparameters exist in
most machine learning algorithms.
In the case of deep
learning which
is based on neural networks,
typical hyperparameters
consists of the learning rate,
the network topology, for
instance the number of layers
and dropout or regularization
as means of dealing
with overfitting.
For more traditional decision
tree-based algorithms
such as popular XG boost,
these could be the number
of trees in the ensemble,
the maximum depth of the
tree or boosting step size.
For clustering, it
could be the number
of clusters and so on.
Each hyperparameter has
a corresponding set of
possible values and altogether
the hyperparameters for
a particular algorithm for
my hyperparameter space
that we need to explore to
find the best point
in that space.
The effect on performance
can be quite dramatic.
What you see here
is the effect of
different combinations of
two hyperparameters of
embedding size and hidden size
on the resulting validation
F1 score which characterizes
the accuracy of the
resulting model.
Embedding size in
this case could be
the dimensionality of
the word embedding
in a natural language
processing problem,
while the hidden size could be
the size of the hidden
layer in a neural network.
The resulting difference between
a validation F1 score
of 87 versus 95,
could be the
difference between an
acceptable or an unacceptable
Machine Learning model.
What's shown here is the space
for just two hyperparameters,
but usually we have many more.
It quickly becomes difficult to
understand and explore
the space by hand,
which is what researchers
often had to do
before automated
hyperparameter optimization.
Additionally, hyperparameters
are typically not
independent of each
other in terms of
their combined
effect on the model.
A changing one would likely
affect how another
influences the model.
Often the only way for you to
know how the model
is going to react to
something different
is to make changes
to hyperparameters and
train a new model.
Exploring this space
exhaustively in
this way is usually going
to be quite costly.
So what are the typical
approaches to model tuning?
We've already talked about
the problems with
manual approach,
at best it's inconsistent and
relies on a lot of
previous experience.
Early attempts at
automation relied
on various brute
force approaches.
One idea is to simply
divide the ranges of
the hyperparameters into
same size intervals,
and then effectively do
a grid search as shown in
the top right picture.
The problem with this approach
is that usually
some parameters are
highly important to improving
the performance,
and others are not.
But the grid search approach
as shown in this picture only
samples three different values
of the important parameter.
If instead, we were to use
the same total number
of nine measurements,
but instead of grid,
chose the positions randomly,
we would sample the
important parameter
in nine different places.
There's also Sobel
algorithm used to
generate the so-called
quasi-random numbers.
These are better than
pseudorandom numbers,
and that they sample the space
more evenly, avoiding clustering.
While also offering
random search,
SageMaker it provides
a smarter approach
based on Bayesian optimization.
The exact details
of this algorithm
is outside the scope
of this course,
but it's based on Gaussian
process regression which provides
estimated bands for
objective parameter
in the yet to be explored areas,
and the algorithm chooses
the most promising
area to explore next.
Now that we understand
the theory of hyperparameter
optimization,
let's see how this actually
works in SageMaker.
For model tuning, I will go
back to the console and we'll
kick off another set of
training jobs actually,
or a model tuning job that
initiates many training jobs
that sample the
hyperparameter space and
let you find the best
combination of parameters.
We'll go to the same
training section,
except we'll choose
hyperparameter tuning jobs.
We'll go and create
hyperparameter tuning
job, click that button.
Of course as always we
need to provide a name.
Choose the IAM role.
A lot of the things
that we need to
supply here are very
similar to what
we've done with the
regular Training and I
will go ahead and
pick the same values
and will spend more time talking
about what's new and
what's different about
hyperparameter training.
We still need to
supply the algorithm,
is going to be object detection.
It's still going to be the
pipe mode. Click Next.
When we described
the hyperparameter
optimization process,
we talked about
different options.
Bayesian methods, Random,
both are supported
in SageMaker but
we'll stick with Bayesian as
potentially more intelligent
way of going about things.
Our objective metric is
automatically suggested for us
which is the mean
average precision,
and we want to
maximize that metric.
We can say that training
jobs could stop earlier,
if SageMaker is able to
determine that there is
no reason to continue.
It seems like our accuracy for
this specific training
job is dropping off.
So we'll say auto,
and we're now getting to
the hyperparameter
configuration screen
except that it's
a little bit more
complicated than last time.
Let's look at the similar parts.
Well first of all for each
of those hyperparameters,
you can still supply
your choices.
So for num classes
we have one class,
epochs we have 30 epochs.
But, if we don't choose
static or fixed really value,
we're able to supply
a range instead.
By doing so we're letting
sageMaker sample values in
that range to figure out
what the best value is.
So we'll choose continuous here,
and we need to supply the min
and max values, for
the learning rate.
Okay. So what are these
values? How do I find them?
If we go to the SageMaker
documentation for
object detection
hyperparameter tuning and I
have this tab opened,
then it does give
you suggestions.
In fact it tells you that,
the biggest impact is
typically seen by
adjusting minibatch size,
learning rate and optimizer.
It doesn't mean that you
should never look into
other parameters but
it's just a suggestion.
Here, for the typical
hyperparameters
that had changed there was
a suggestion off the
min and max value.
Therefore, for learning rate,
these are the values
that we can provide.
Going back to the console, 0.5.
Because of a dramatic
difference in scale here,
I think it's good to leave
a logarithmic scale.
We also have the optimizer.
In the previous training job,
the optimizer we chose was
SGD or Stochastic
Gradient Descent.
There are some other methods
that are also available,
like adam and so on.
Again if you don't know
what is a better optimizer,
just let the system optimize
for you or figure it out for you
by supplying the entire list
of four available optimizers,
and that means, see
yet another hyperparameter
that SageMaker will use.
Momentum and weight decay.
In this case I've decided
not to optimize them.
Rely on the static values.
These are the ones that
we supplied last time.
But the minibatch
size is interesting,
and so it can go
from one to say 32.
Let's see if we can get
a better performance or
a more optimal value
than the one that we were
previously supplying.
Finally, we provide the same 400,
a number of training samples and
leave the rest of the
attributes to be the same.
I click the Next button,
and here you see the
same channel configuration
that we need to go through.
Let's do it quickly,
and it's going to be exactly
the same like last time.
The location. Let me copy.
There is also a handy
possibility for you to clone
a previous training job
in which case a lot
of these parameters that
you are filling here,
will be automatically set
to the same values
you've used before.
Okay, hit the Next button,
and we move to
the next section that
is somewhat familiar.
First, we need to choose
the instance type,
and for this, we're going to
choose the same p2 xlarge.
The next section
of resource limits
is actually quite important.
In the maximum of training jobs,
you get to decide how
many training jobs
the hyperparameter
optimization will kick off,
and that's your way to control
how much of the hyperparameter
space will be explored.
Also, of course it controls how
much it's going to
cost overall because
every training job will
consume a certain amount
of GPU and will be contributing
to the overall cost.
So for the purposes of
demonstration, I'll just use 10.
The next section is maximum
parallel training jobs,
and would just
configure how many of
these 10 can run in
parallel if you had
access to many GPUs.
But be careful about the limits.
You may have certain
limits in the accounts
of the number of GPU instances
you can use concurrently.
So I'll keep this as one.
For the purposes of
the demonstration.
I'll create the jobs.
That's each of the training jobs.
So the entire
hyperparameter tuning job,
will finish when
all those training jobs
have been completed.
So we might need to wait
here for quite some time.
Therefore instead of waiting,
we can just look
at the results of
the previously
completed tuning job,
like this one here to see
what the outcome was.
If I click on the
test tuning job,
you can see that it took
an hour and 44 minutes.
The interesting thing to look at,
is the objective metric value
for all those training jobs.
We can see the duration of
time that each of those took,
and we can see also the best
outcome is right here, 0.47.
That's higher than
what we had with
our single training job
that we examined earlier.
The other attempts were
not so successful.
You could see that after
six minutes of running,
the value of the
objective metric in
this job was so poor that
SageMaker decided to stop
that there's no point
in trying to continue
epoch after epoch,
because we get a much better
results somewhere else.
So this is another benefit of
kicking off hyperparameter
optimization.
That early stopping
means that you're
actually saving yourself time and
saving costs by stopping
earlier and not
continuing with exploring paths
that are not going to
lead to great results.
Okay, so if this job
produced the best results,
what are the relevant
hyperparameters?
If we click on the job itself,
and then scroll down,
we can see that the
learning rate for
this tuning job was 0.002.
So it's higher than the
default that was chosen,
it means that the neural
network was converging faster,
and then the minibatch
size was picked to
be two instead of the one
that we supplied earlier.
Okay, interesting.
So how can we see
the results of this?
Well, we can do the
same thing here.
We can take the model artifacts
that this training job produced,
package them, deploy
them to an endpoint,
and examine the outcome.
In fact, I have done
that previously.
So let's try this.
If I look at the endpoints,
I believe it's this one here.
So I can just copy the
name of my endpoint.
That is in service.
Go back to my notebook,
scroll to the section where
we checked the endpoints status.
In fact, it's exactly
the one that I have here
in the comments too.
Statuses and service.
We can just move on
to the plotting part
where we're going to
execute or run those
10 test images
against the same endpoint,
and see what the outcome is.
We're definitely seeing
better quality results.
You can see that this bee
is well taken care of.
There is some boxes here that
clearly not point to a bee.
But that's also possible.
This one is not so bad.
This one is decent.
Even in this image,
it sees a bee somewhere here.
The entire flower looks
a little bit like
a bee so I think the
system is confused.
This image remains to be hard.
But here it did a good job.
Okay, and also not so bad.
Even here where you have
many bees I had highlighted some,
and provided a general
area for the bee.
So you could see that
we've managed to achieve
more accurate results by
executing automatic model
tuning, with SageMaker.
Where we didn't
really have to know
any kind of background on what
each hyperparameter means.
How it affects the accuracy.
We're just lead
SageMaker do the job.
I think the next
step from here would
be to maybe try different
network topologies,
and to try to grab more images
from the iNaturalist website.
So instead of 400,
let's grab 2,000 more and
try to rerun the training.
But I will leave this as a
take home exercise for you.
One thing I almost forgot.
It's the cleanup section.
Once you've done your
experimentation,
there's lots of resources that
you can actually shut down
every endpoint that's running
is actually instance,
that's running and it's
consuming resources.
So here's a quick
way to clean it up.
Delete all the unnecessary
resources so you don't
have to pay money
for unused stuff.
This completes our demonstration.
We have now come to
the end of our course.
I hope you're eager to try
SageMaker ground-truth and object
detection on your own dataset.
To give you an idea,
why don't you complement
the images of
honey bees with those off wasps,
similarly downloaded from the
same iNaturalist website,
and then build an
object detector that
can tell apart bees from wasps.
Wouldn't that be cool. So I
hope you learned something
useful. Thanks for watching.
Again, my name is Denis Batalov,
don't forget to connect
on Twitter or LinkedIn,
would love to hear your
feedback about this course.